# 5.5.3 Risk-based Testing and Product Quality

Risk is used to focus the effort required during testing. It is used to decide where and when to start testing and to identify areas that need more attention. Testing is used to reduce the probability of an adverse event occurring, or to reduce the impact of an adverse event. Testing is used as a risk mitigation activity, to provide information about identified risks, as well as providing information on residual \(unresolved\) risks. 

A risk-based approach to testing provides proactive opportunities to reduce the levels of product risk. It involves product risk analysis, which includes the identification of product risks and the assessment of each risk’s likelihood and impact. The resulting product risk information is used to guide test planning, the specification, preparation and execution of test cases, and test monitoring and control. Analyzing product risks early contributes to the success of a project. 

In a risk-based approach, the results of product risk analysis are used to: 

* Determine the test techniques to be employed 
* Determine the particular levels and types of testing to be performed \(e.g., security testing, accessibility testing\) 
* Determine the extent of testing to be carried out 
* Prioritize testing in an attempt to find the critical defects as early as possible 
* Determine whether any activities in addition to testing could be employed to reduce risk \(e.g., providing training to inexperienced designers\) 

Risk-based testing draws on the collective knowledge and insight of the project stakeholders to carry out product risk analysis. To ensure that the likelihood of a product failure is minimized, risk management activities provide a disciplined approach to: 

* Analyze \(and re-evaluate on a regular basis\) what can go wrong \(risks\) 
* Determine which risks are important to deal with 
* Implement actions to mitigate those risks 
* Make contingency plans to deal with the risks should they become actual events 

In addition, testing may identify new risks, help to determine what risks should be mitigated, and lower uncertainty about risks.

