# 2.1.1. Software Development and Software Testing

It is an important part of a tester's role to be familiar with the common software development lifecycle models so that appropriate test activities can take place. 

In any software development lifecycle model, there are several characteristics of good testing: 

* For every development activity, there is a corresponding test activity 
* Each test level has test objectives specific to that level 
* Test analysis and design for a given test level begin during the corresponding development activity
* Testers participate in discussions to define and refine requirements and design, and are involved in reviewing work products \(e.g., requirements, design, user stories, etc.\) as soon as drafts are available 

No matter which software development lifecycle model is chosen, test activities should start in the early stages of the lifecycle, adhering to the testing principle of early testing. 

This syllabus categorizes common software development lifecycle models as follows: 

* Sequential development models 
* Iterative and incremental development models 

A sequential development model describes the software development process as a linear, sequential flow of activities. This means that any phase in the development process should begin when the previous phase is complete. In theory, there is no overlap of phases, but in practice, it is beneficial to have early feedback from the following phase. 

In the Waterfall model, the development activities \(e.g., requirements analysis, design, coding, testing\) are completed one after another. In this model, test activities only occur after all other development activities have been completed. 

Unlike the Waterfall model, the V-model integrates the test process throughout the development process, implementing the principle of early testing. Further, the V-model includes test levels associated with each corresponding development phase, which further supports early testing \(see section 2.2 for a discussion of test levels\). In this model, the execution of tests associated with each test level proceeds sequentially, but in some cases overlapping occurs. 

Sequential development models deliver software that contains the complete set of features, but typically require months or years for delivery to stakeholders and users. 

Incremental development involves establishing requirements, designing, building, and testing a system in pieces, which means that the software’s features grow incrementally. The size of these feature increments varies, with some methods having larger pieces and some smaller pieces. The feature increments can be as small as a single change to a user interface screen or new query option. 

Iterative development occurs when groups of features are specified, designed, built, and tested together in a series of cycles, often of a fixed duration. Iterations may involve changes to features developed in earlier iterations, along with changes in project scope. Each iteration delivers working software which is a growing subset of the overall set of features until the final software is delivered or development is stopped. 

Examples include: 

* Rational Unified Process: Each iteration tends to be relatively long \(e.g., two to three months\), and the feature increments are correspondingly large, such as two or three groups of related features 
* Scrum: Each iteration tends to be relatively short \(e.g., hours, days, or a few weeks\), and the feature increments are correspondingly small, such as a few enhancements and/or two or three new features 
* Kanban: Implemented with or without fixed-length iterations, which can deliver either a single enhancement or feature upon completion, or can group features together to release at once
* Spiral: Involves creating experimental increments, some of which may be heavily re-worked or even abandoned in subsequent development work 

Components or systems developed using these methods often involve overlapping and iterating test levels throughout development. Ideally, each feature is tested at several test levels as it moves towards delivery. In some cases, teams use continuous delivery or continuous deployment, both of which involve significant automation of multiple test levels as part of their delivery pipelines. Many development efforts using these methods also include the concept of self-organizing teams, which can change the way testing work is organized as well as the relationship between testers and developers. 

These methods form a growing system, which may be released to end-users on a feature-by-feature basis, on an iteration-by-iteration basis, or in a more traditional major-release fashion. Regardless of whether the software increments are released to end-users, regression testing is increasingly important as the system grows.

In contrast to sequential models, iterative and incremental models may deliver usable software in weeks or even days, but may only deliver the complete set of requirements product over a period of months or even years. 

For more information on software testing in the context of Agile development. \(see ISTQB-CTFL-AT, Black 2017, Crispin 2008, and Gregory 2015\).

