# 4.2.2 Boundary Value Analysis

Boundary value analysis \(BVA\) is an extension of equivalence partitioning, but can only be used when the partition is ordered, consisting of numeric or sequential data. The minimum and maximum values \(or first and last values\) of a partition are its boundary values \(see Beizer 1990\). 

For example, suppose an input field accepts a single integer value as an input, using a keypad to limit inputs so that non-integer inputs are impossible. The valid range is from 1 to 5, inclusive. So, there are three equivalence partitions: invalid \(too low\); valid; invalid \(too high\). For the valid equivalence partition, the boundary values are 1 and 5. For the invalid \(too high\) partition, the boundary value is 6. For the invalid \(too low\) partition, there is only one boundary value, 0, because this is a partition with only one member. 

In the example above, we identify two boundary values per boundary. The boundary between invalid \(too low\) and valid gives the test values 0 and 1. The boundary between valid and invalid \(too high\) gives the test values 5 and 6. Some variations of this technique identify three boundary values per boundary: the values before, at, and just over the boundary. In the previous example, using three-point boundary values, the lower boundary test values are 0, 1, and 2, and the upper boundary test values are 4, 5, and 6 \(see Jorgensen 2014\). 

Behavior at the boundaries of equivalence partitions is more likely to be incorrect than behavior within the partitions. It is important to remember that both specified and implemented boundaries may be displaced to positions above or below their intended positions, may be omitted altogether, or may be supplemented with unwanted additional boundaries. Boundary value analysis and testing will reveal almost all such defects by forcing the software to show behaviors from a partition other than the one to which the boundary value should belong. 

Boundary value analysis can be applied at all test levels. This technique is generally used to test requirements that call for a range of numbers \(including dates and times\). Boundary coverage for a partition is measured as the number of boundary values tested, divided by the total number of identified boundary test values, normally expressed as a percentage. 4.2.3 Decision

